Hi everyone, welcome to this week's episode of No Such Things A Fish, where we were
joined by the absolutely brilliant Lou Sanders. Now you'll remember Lou because
she's been on fish a couple of times I think, she's been on QI many many times,
she's an absolute favourite of ours, she's so so funny, so so brilliant. There's
loads of things I could tell you about her, she's written books, she's on tour next
year, but really the best place to find out everything about her is to go to
Lou Sanders that's l-o-u-s-a-n-d-e-r-s dot com and all of the information about
her is there if you want to learn more, which I bet you will because she is a real
tour de force and she definitely shows that off in this episode today and of
course it would be remiss of me not to mention club fish go to patreon.com/nosuchthingsafish
and find out everything there is to get there there is merch there's bonus stuff
others all sorts you know where to go patreon.com/nosuchthingsafish and find out more
not much more to say apart from on with the podcast
hello and welcome to another episode of no such thing as a fish a weekly podcast
coming to you from the QI offices in Hobern. My name is Dan Shriver I am sitting
here with Andrew Hunter Murray, James Harkin and Lou Sanders and once again we
have gathered around the microphones with our four favorite facts from the
last seven days and in a particular order here we go starting with fact number
one and that is Lou. Well you're more likely to get your way if you ask
one for a favor in the right ear and not the left ear it's called right ear
dominance okay so yeah interesting where we're sat you're speaking into
and these right ear yeah and into our left ears can I get more money for the polka yes
it wouldn't work if I asked Dan that no no um right to write a dominance is this
like being like left or right handed or left or right footage is to do with the
hemispheres of the brain and now I'll consult my phone
you got the baby that's right without looking at I was quite impressed myself actually
yeah so it's called right ear advantage I said that didn't I for verbal
commands and persuasion can you imagine sort of like looping round and going
through the other way to sort of ask yeah you've got to do it subtly yes you've
got to make your way over getting out of the bed going round to her side yeah it
does make sense to sleep on the right side of the bed right yes yeah that is
how we're positioned in bed is that right yes I don't want to hear how you're
positioned in bed who's mixing the who's right here for now look at my right
I heard it was top to jail with you I thought it was you on the top bunk that's
very cool yeah um that's a very good idea I've you would see now I wonder if
you look at classic photos a big business meals and so on whether or not you
see you know who's on the right side of Trump for example yeah who's on the
right side of history so do we know why it's why this well let me consult
AI is now you when you search engine something AI comes up first she's annoying
because they're using all the water um don't get me started language I left
hemisphere dominance language and verbal information are primarily
processed by the left hemisphere of the brain in most people in most people oh the
right here is more directly wired to the left hemisphere faster processing
information received is interesting through the right ear reaches the language
processing center in the left hemisphere more quickly I don't know oh here we go
this is more interesting a study conducted in Italian nightclubs where
researchers asked clubbers for a cigarette in their left ear or right ear found
that requests made in a right ear were twice as successful really yeah I'd say I
don't want to cigarette in my left ear Italian nightclubs the cradle of science I've
done my own research in there no no one one of us sitting around this table for
a particular reason has better hearing than the other three irrespective of
okay a major hearing damage okay I mean have better hearing women have better
hearing than men because we are supposed to get up for the baby I suppose that'll
be it is it better hearing in terms of like you know the higher a sound goes
and then only dogs can hear it do they have a higher range that's for sure they
do yeah yeah but it's also player sound at any part of the range and women will
be more likely to perceive it than men and our eyes are better as well so we can
see more colors than men yes it's not like why are we so downtrodden when we're
actually better um oh it's made you a stronger yeah yeah you've put all we're
emotionally strong if someone's fighting you you can't say oh I can see 20 colors
here yeah we're emotionally strong that's true so you tell me how often are you
getting into fights and how often are you seeing and hearing things every day
you're seeing and hearing fights even you not one month is it I am from the
north one interesting thing about women having better hearing is they can hear
higher things and that means that there was a thing where people were making
household appliances and they'd have a very high sort of hum but the people who
are making them were often men so the men couldn't hear it and then they'd sell
them and the women were using them this is like in the 70s and 80s yeah and the
women could hear it that's that's like the um it's a sort of invisible women
that book yes yeah yeah it's all about how things are not built with women in
mind but that's so funny that men have been making like screaming blenders
yeah and perceivable to them another way to terrorize us congratulations
it's weird that this was done in Italian night clubs yeah because I think there's a
big history of make your place your job you know yeah I think there's a big
history of Italian ear science really yeah so Alessandra Volta was the
count Italian count the battery and the battery needed a lot of it wow electrical
experimentation and he was one of the pioneers of electrifying ears why was he
electrifying ears he was electrifying everything he could get his hands on but
one of them invented the battery what are you gonna do yeah that's USP basically
going around night clubs just battery in people right yeah but there were lots
a lot I think lots of Italian pioneers here's another thing two people around
this table have better hearing than the other two irrespective of Lou getting
about them male female thing forget about me and Lou because we live by the sea
you got it well not within the city actually people who live in the city have
better hearing oh so you're me yes sorry that's right and this is according to a
study at the University of Giesen in Germany and they found that people in
quiet villages they don't have so good hearing because they don't have to
fight over the traffic and stuff all the time and the absolute worst hearing of
anyone in the world where do you think they live the quietest place quietest
but then there's an extra thing on top it's not Wales it's quiet but there's a
background noise so like near and nuclear reactor because it's low population
but the nuclear reactor's humming it's not that it's East Asian villages because
they have a very quiet life that every now and then they get huge firework
displays and that really damages their hearing but then they also have the
quiet thing I was looking into is inevitably landed on Van Gogh because that's
where all year research will get you to and I was reading about when he was
getting his ear treated after after an injury to it and I can't tell if this was
the injury where he lobbed it off or if he had another injury where he just
cut it with a razor and needed it looked after either way he saw a doctor
called Dr Felix Ray and as a thank you he gave Dr Felix Ray a portrait of Dr
Felix Ray so he did one over a number of days handed to him to say yeah really
beautiful painting I've seen it Dr Ray hated it as his wife so for the next 10
years they used it to block up a hole that was in the chicken coop but they had
outside their house they have the painting on the inside of the
house that's where it stayed for 10 years it was eventually sold off and it's
now in a museum and it's estimated to be worth about 50 million but they get
the money for it did they get some money for I think no I think it got you know
just picked it on to someone else if they got any money would be in a small
amount yeah wow could I should have kept that fan art that someone sent me with a
boggly eye they tagged me in I thought I'm not reposting that if you do make
fan art people you want them should we post it make it on the right side of
flattering sure here's another really famous here on science history okay the
year on the rat the year on the rat the year of the rat the year of the
house does anyone ever yes I do and here was grown on the back of a rat the year was
grown on the back of a rat a human here a human ear was grown on the back of a
rat and people science has been doing this for at least 20 years on and off the
first one was done in 1997 wow I think there's a scientist the original the
Vacanty mouse I think the scientist was Joseph Vacanty talent may have been
Italian it certainly sounds Italian oh yeah they love the ears yeah and he
basically he was a pediatric surgeon and one of his colleagues said we really
struggle with recreating good ears for children of child's lost an ear and an
accident or something it's really hard to shape the cartilage to make it
yeah because you can't hear out the mouse can't hear out of that massive ear on
its back kind of no it's not like it's not a working ear it's just the
outside bit it's it's the same as the shell exactly it's the kind of the
external yeah and they grow it and they would put a they put a frame on the
mouse or the rat that grows the ear so it grows into the shape of the ear
because there's a mold yes it's like forcing a cucumber to the right place I didn't
know that detail I just thought yeah actually think it was like the
mouse is going fuck I didn't think it was that fairly function I don't have any
cigarettes to give you I'm sorry no business so and his breath weirdly the
vacanti vacanti and his brother had both worked on the same problem but they've
keep doing it the latest one I think was in 2016 and they said we're going to
move to human trials so yeah I was in growing the ears on animals and then
implanting them into humans yeah so far the trailer's gone cold I believe so
can we just grow a whole human if we put it in a mold if you put a mold of a
human no there is a market for that is there what doesn't do anything does it
but it's a human doll oh yeah yeah yes yes like the ear it wouldn't it would
just be a it would just be the shape yeah I don't think there's a grown on the
backs of mice as far as I understand well you couldn't put a high human body on
the back of a mice it would topple over yes absolutely yeah whatever also it
wouldn't be able to get back into its hole would it because the human would be
too this is you know it's obvious it's obvious it's a terrible idea yeah I don't
have to be the one to say that come on boys come on you're supposed to be
braining you can't go ahead of body on a mouse come on yeah real and we've been
doing it for as you say since 1997 yeah multiple years but no ear has ever
gone from a mouse to a human I believe not so I'm to move on I think it's time to
double them but also you always read things in the paper that says oh they've
figured out a way to do this and then you don't hear any more about it I think
it's like to give us a bit of a lift and a bit of a story but they're not really
planning on doing anything with it like the the thing that ain't plastic the little
bacteria yeah where's that gone I think it's probably when I was talking about it
they let go of disappeared yeah yeah you know they give us a bit of a good
news yeah oh they've saved sight or something I read the other day right come on
then it's it's always a very early development
yeah don't waste my time yeah come back to me it's because they need to do the
headlines to get funding yeah yes so they do the big oh we're going to save
this yeah the newspapers say we're going to save this and they're like no we just
really just want a few grand to buy some nice on the hearing front what is it
with people that talk really loudly I've got two friends that talks so loudly
they must be deaf yeah for now says that I talk extremely loudly and I don't
think I do no she's always going on about how you shout out her a lot yeah yeah
when I when I've been with you guys that might be what she's talking about my
rage I mean I've got like 15 kids to shout over we do and also when you're
sleeping top to tails it does take yeah the blankets yeah we should be
bouncing oh feel like we have a nobody facts oh we've done loads oh we've done
tons if you've got bigger ears do you think you hear better or worse or the
better better you're right it's one of those facts that's just what you would
imagine it's so enjoyable but that's the case yeah that bigger is mean it's only
it's very very slight it's 15 decibels difference which is basically you can't
really tell the difference but yeah it does make a difference like if you have
the bigger nose can you smell better probably not right because it doesn't
necessarily mean your receptors are any better it's you can take more air and
in one sniff why don't you let us know dad okay wait that's got a big big nose I've
got a small nose and you make a smell and we'll see who smells it first yeah
make a smell make a smell right now I'm doing it if you can smell it at home do let us
know podcasted QI dot com okay it is time for fact number two and that is James okay
my fat this week is that the town of Ramsgate is named after a gate for Ravens
very confusing that's so cool it is really cool well I think is wonder Ravens
need a gate it's a gap in the cliffs where the Ravens go in I thought you could
say it's a gap in the market we think it comes from the old English word gate
meaning gate and laughing which means Raven and that became Ramsgate
laughing also sometimes means warlord so it could be gate of the warlord and
Daniel Defoe thought that Ramsgate was originally called Romansgate and it's
where the Romans landed because it was actually where the Romans landed but
can we just say for maybe for international listeners from the north or
listeners from the north or west of England or other parts of the UK who may
not know about the bustling metropolis of Ramsgate yes for Ramsgators yeah well
part of fan it which is on the southeast coast that's a circular no it's a
it's it's it's because it's quite connected to quite a few places that you may
have heard of margate broad stairs and Ramsgate kind of come as a trio you've
got Westgate as well it's a it's a town it's a town on the you're trying to get
to it's a town it's just say if you want us to say it's a town you say it I just
think that's referencing can I just say it's a margate I think the fact was the
town of Ramsgate you're right you're absolutely right you're right it's a classic
English seaside town in many ways yes yeah it's lovely and it's it's so
interesting I had no idea how interesting it is is it where you live where are
you no no I've no I know I know I do what you're talking about no I was I would
live there from two to four then I move next door to broad stairs now I live in
Margate so do the trilogy oh it's that going or down market to go well they all
changed the Ramsgate was of dive and then broad stairs is a bit of
fancier then Margate was a dive but now it's fancier you know what regular
listeners will know about Margate because Dan goes on about it so much yeah
because I live there yeah it's not just because it's nice it's nice I really
excitedly I went to see a school today it's one that my daughter might go to and
they said that every year they take all the kids on a trip to Margate and I
got to say sold yeah yeah well I think if it was a trip to Ramsgate that'd be
even better because it's stunningly interesting it's one of those towns where
it's quite it's reasonably close to London and then for a spell in the what
18th and 19th century it was one of the most fashionable places on the planet
incredibly beautiful buildings incredibly rich history in terms of
connections to Europe it's got weight troze it's got a weight troze Charles Darwin
had a flat did a lot of his barnacle research in the area
van Gogh van Gogh oh that brings it of chicken coop famous wow
himself spent three months as a teacher a lot of artists do you go to the
area because the lights are very beautiful you see this one rising Ramsgate and
you see this on set in Margate something to do with those yeah
geography teaching a teaching assistant I think teaching assistant who's TA who
was who was van Gogh van Gogh I mean you're actually being the teacher in the class
where van Gogh is a teaching assistant right that's quite trick if you're the art
teacher as I'm presuming he was yeah and you're trying to teach something he's
in the pack of it weird yeah but it was also branded in world or one as the most
bombed seaside town in the UK basically the first blitzes hit Ramsgate and they
had an amazing way of dealing with that which I'm sure Andy you must have
read into and enjoyed the tunnels that they built yeah oh tunneled into the
cliffs they dug and I think it was for the second mobile was the big bombing
grades yeah the worst time in the first mobile the second mobile they just dug
this cave complex into the bliss I think they can get 60,000 people down there they
quite so it's really I didn't know this and I've been to these caves while I've
been to the gift shop we didn't quite make it into the caves no but we were we
we're going back isn't the gift shop usually at the end of this
specter you would get in for free by going through the gift shop walking backwards
to the side style so what's it saying a rock yeah it's like a model of a cave
what is it no it's where you actually buy the tickets to go into the cave but
they can only take you as a tour group so you can't just wander in so it's huge
and initially why it was built was it goes deep into away from the ocean in land
and it was for the local town members to have a tunnel that would get them
straight to the seaside so it wasn't built initially for the bombing but they
were they were already live at the seaside but it's just a quick way rather than
going through the town yeah because there's a little there's a little there's
a little rail yeah it was trains exactly I'll go above ground what if you need to
pop to boots or something also people get a piss of that tunnel yeah surely not
surely not in Ramsgate oh well do you want to story about Ramsgate that's not
very high brats please I years ago I was thinking why don't I just buy in Ramsgate
this was like years and years ago and I felt it's quite nice and then I was
seriously considering it and then I went to the toilet Ramsgate station
before I got on the train and someone had done a shit a loft of the radiator in
the waiting room a loft of the radiator yeah it's just they've they've positioned
themselves on top of the radiator so the toilet was like two seconds through a
door toilets there but they said no what I'll do is pull down my pants in the
waiting room and just poop on a radiator no get out broad stairs do you you
don't get that much in broad stairs definitely humor well I haven't got time to
do you know the world's biggest weather spoons is in Ramsgate I go there
probably do you do actually I do I don't because he he was like a pioneer of
Brexit not you know but you can get a pint of ruddles for £1.20 all right here
we go okay here we go yeah it does it's Matt is great to list it yeah it's
1,500 people it can hold which is the same as Shakespeare's Globe wow it's an
old ballroom yeah it's an old ballroom and it's really beautiful it's right on the
beach it's a it's a great it's a great big pub it's true I'm with Lou it's a
shithole it's a two-minute walk from the caves by the way if anyone there's some
lovely little independent wine bars up there say that do you know the home for
smack boys yeah no that's in Ramsgate what is it it's what does it sound like
where Max is Congregate I know come on I like boys where people who worked on
smacks are they yeah fishing boats fishing smacks yeah and they went out with
boys as young as sort of probably about 14 were going out working on the fishing
boats and said this was a place to give them food and accommodation and you know
stability yeah still if you walk across from this building it still has the words
like something like home of the smack boys on the side which if you don't know
what that means is quite confusing yeah what it's attached to is the sailors
church which is this tiny church you can fit about 30 people in there I've been
into it multiple times I've never seen a service done there but I started
reading into it and there's reviews by I didn't know this was a thing mystery
worshipers so it's like mystery shoppers yeah is not great so yeah you would have
mystery shoppers who would do that they mystery worshipers are people who go
into a church they experience it and they report back on a survey that they're
questioned about did you connect with the almighty yeah exactly level of
spiritual well questions are like how full was the building did anyone welcome
you personally were the puse comfortable and the person who filled it in was
slightly slightly odd was the puse comfortable the puse had very low back
support so I thought on balance no it was uncomfortable off balance mark yeah
did the service make you feel glad to be a Christian I didn't feel miserable
that's an accomplishment
someone who used to regularly go to church yeah if any new person came into our
church everyone would know yeah because it would always be the same family
everyone would sit in the same places and stuff like that if someone sat in your
place you would know immediately that they were a secret mystery
worshiper mystery worshipers the smallest church in the world maybe is in
over just a really I think so every time someone asked me if that's really true
our panic but I think that house how small will be talking tiny can a fit one
person and a lot of people obviously I've not got the answers hey Andy I thought
you would hate Ramsgate because your hero hated Ramsgate Jane Austen correct
really why well she thought it was a place of distribute as seaside results were
in her day really sure and apparently according to Kent historian Norman
Thomas she mentions it in pride and prejudice in Mansfield Park and she's
never complimentary and either I've not read any Jane Austen so I think it's
where mr. Darcy's sister is nearly seduced by mr. Wickham in I think it
happens in Ramsgate it's at the place is that the one where mr. Darcy leaves a
turd on a radiator yeah and that's when Lizzie Bennett knows that he's the one yeah
I think her brother lived down there for a while captain Austin yes she had a load
of brothers who were navy or military and I think it was a place where you know
this thing scarlet fever not the disease is where it's basically sorry just
cut out everything I said about the smoothies you know if you wonder why it was
quite the last couple minutes no it's one of the smallest work in church is in
England Dover's tiny chapels and Edmund of Abeddon is the only church still in
existence that was dead and by that point you get quite bored right you got it
it's a small job it's a small get over it sorry what are you saying nothing
important yeah I got I got quite a nice message which is something that
usually would be reserved for drop us a line but a listener who runs a local
thing called Margate mushrooms so as Andy and James or no I've been taking
lion's main mushrooms it's a little drip to help your concentration we have to
keep this for the advertising bit of the show we have to put it in a
break we can't just work at it we can't just work at it what turns out the
person who makes this stuff listens to our show I had no idea and she
messaged me she listened to our episode about crafts that are going in
danger and virtually out Ramsgate is home to one of the very few chainmail
makers living in the UK so a guy named Nick Chexfield so he has a lifetime
achievement award from the Heritage Crafts Association and she was saying
because she knows him or it's only spoken to him and she was saying he's so
good at understanding chainmail that if he looks at old centuries-old chain
mail he can tell if the maker was right or left-handed he can tell if they
were getting tired as they were making it who's fact checking him you know what I
mean I could go on and go like yeah okay this guy's as such a
serious you know well he's dead he's dead 100 years ago so that's easier to
fact check well he's got he's got a website Nick Chexfield Nick Chexfield
website no it doesn't good and I would like some free mushroom jobs as well would
you right but check this out I'm the website he has an advice hotline for if you
have emergency questions about your chainmail now this is gonna come in you
so she might just drop that down what circumstances do you need emergency
advice about it like if a hundred crossbow balls are flying towards you
okay does he sell much do you think I don't know if he sells much and I don't I
assume the the advice hotline is for people who are in museums who might have
damaged the chainmail and they need some advice on what to immediately do
he's doing great anyway that's a that's a craft rams engaged and he's
down the rams get a hero yeah along with oh backpack really my broad studs
backpacks was supposed to post again again I will have to fact check that well
see you in a few minutes and then the book goes get shorter is that the guy who
created backpacks a backpacks and I'll post gate right right how do you
retain all this information this is crazy to me yeah well the good thing is I
can keep staying stuff and if I get it wrong that just cut it out but I couldn't
even remember that I booked account for myself the other day fascinating that you
will need to remove your chainmail for that okay it's time for fact number three
and that is Andy my fact is the scientist who won this year's Nobel prize for
medicine didn't find out for nearly a day because he'd gone off grid and he only
found out after his wife got two hundred texts wow so this is about Fred
Ramsdell who's an immunologist yep and a very good one clearly and he and his
wife in October he they'd gone on a three-week hike in Wyoming with their
dogs they were having a whale of a time and they gone they gone off grid and they
turned off their phones and they you know they just had not paid any attention
on the very last day his wife started screaming and he thought she's seen a
bear we're in big trouble and it turns out she just got two hundred tech
messages saying can you please put your phone on the Nobel's are trying to contact you
and that's why I won't ever turn my phone off in case I just win a Nobel
basically yeah and if you turn your phone off you have no bow on it so yeah brilliant
brilliant um yeah they've been trying to get them up for 20 hours and there's
pretty much a new record for how long anyone's been able to stay away from the
Nobel committee trying to contact you right very amazing I mean the quite
often it becomes the viral thing when the Nobel prizes are announced someone
not picking up their phone yeah we love it this happened last year where a
neighbor had to come over who happened to be a scientist at like two in the
morning and was ringing the doorbell yes did I pick up your phone that's 2020
that was Paul Milgram right yeah yeah do you want to hear about Richard Ernst in 1991
he was on a flight from Moscow back to the USA he was asleep it was a night flight
and he was woken up he said there's a phone call for you he said what do you mean
there's a phone call for me it's 1991 how could it be a phone call for me and you
said leave me like I'm going back to sleep I think they did have some phones on
planes but it wasn't a couple of things receive a call he said no let me sleep and
they said no no no get up sir come to the cockpit and he went to the cockpit of
this plane and he put on the radio set the pilot around him and it was the Nobel
committee saying you've just won the Nobel for chemistry yeah he'd done the
research on depending MRI scanning who's a big deal yeah there was a guy
Melvin Calvin going slightly off memory here sounds like he's been filled in
do you want it for he won the science prize and he was not they weren't able to
reach him because he was away secretly at a alien conference and it's not as
weird as it sounds because it's where Carl Sagan and Frank Frank Rakeware where
they the foundations of SETI were so he was at the very first SETI meeting and
they found out as he was busy being probed and they yeah yeah and actually Frank
Drake was going to send off for some champagne and it just so happened that
the person who was the chauffeur for all of them to get them to this place was
called French beverage and what are you talking about I can't I can't send French
beverage to go get the champagne that just feels to the mushrooms that you had
with a a so Melvin Calvin was the guy who won but was at an alien conference well
not an alien conference so we're setting up SETI yeah sorry yeah yeah yeah yeah quite
good the SETI runs with Yeti but those are two of your big interests yes that's
true didn't know that that's a good point I'm spaghetti you like as well don't you
I love spaghetti the whole point is that he wasn't they couldn't reach him and
they got through to his wife you then had to call right the secret base yeah
it's a mention it to him that he had won it a lot of people think it's spam
don't they are telemarketing when people when the Nobel's ring up I really
after as that gunner who won the literature prize a few years ago they rank him
and said you've won the Nobel Prize but before they could say anything he said
leave me alone and just slap the phone down I think Kazooir Ishiguro yeah same thing
I bet yeah so maybe you've already won it Lou you just so off grid which is
where Fred Ramstone was what does that mean well I think it gets used wrong all the
time I certainly use it right people say I'm going off grid yeah and what they
mean is I won't have my phone I'm turning up I'm putting on my out-of-office
of the Eva well Morrison's in Margate it's got no reception so that's off grid
right there we go yeah what it should mean is and you do have to fund for yourself
because some of those are really mixed up but it should be I'm not going to be
using public utilities yes I'm not going to be using public water or electricity
supplies but people don't use it to mean that anymore self-sustainable is
what I want to be right so you have your own electricity you have your own
water source I think they're the big two those are the big two some kind of
sewage system if you're if we're being fussy yes yes yes yes or I radio
didn't listen drawing it out is half the battle you get rid of it or dry it thank
you it's mostly water weight so are you are you interested in this kind of
I would love to keep doing my job and keep doing what I do but then living in a
few acres of land with my own water and electricity solar system all eco I'd
like to sort of have a little eco village so I would like to be self-sustainable
but still you know pop on QI etc you know yeah yeah yeah you'll have to make your
own QI unfortunately no you have to have your own set bill I still want to go
to cafes you know yeah yeah yeah yeah I'm not growing my own coffee beans I think
that's fine I think that is off-grid there's one good way of getting powered
that a youtuber called Chris doll has done you know vapes love him coming out
your ears so vapes they each have a tiny battery in them but what people do is they
vape them until you can vape no more and then you chuck them away but then that
means they're chucking away this tiny battery and usually there's electricity
left on it so this guy he salvaged 500 disposable vapes and turned the
batteries into a working power wall which powers basically all his stuff in his
house wow that's so good yeah it's not that many vapes as well I didn't have
fast to get through a vape 500 well you go through about 20 a day then yeah yeah
I do I do they come with a certain number of puffs don't they and you can buy
mega vapes which are illegal which have more puffs in them really yeah mega
vape I've never felt more how do you do fellow kids talking about vapes yeah yeah
but I think and you can say to you like your news agent whether you've got
the illegal vapes for me and he'll go under the counter and pull out like a
size of a Toblerone and this is how you're also not done it how do you know that he
had the Toblerones come in all different sizes I'm so sorry you're absolutely
right the size of an airport Toblerone oh okay there we go okay right if I ask for
a large Toblerone when they have that under the counter as well they'll actually
pull out a massive Toblerone they'll pull out an even bigger one always a
bigger one yeah there's always a bigger than the counter no I think they're meant
to be legally they have to be rechargeable now but people still throw them away
because they can't be bothered to because they're cheap because they're cheap
there's quite a few places that are kind of set up already for off-grid living
would you have a considered just incorporating yourself into a place the
groundwork having been done yes but how am I going to be a cult leader if there's
already good point you know you know will you kill the kill the previous
leaders are by combat yeah no I want to do it with a couple of friends or
something so I don't know I don't know maybe but then would you have to deal
with annoying people I don't know always in life always yeah usually what happens
with cults is either so it's not actually a cult yeah it's just James is sure
and let's say people who live off-grid in communes yeah usually what happens is
someone decides let's all have sex with each other yes and then they all fall
out or two groups mob and they all fall out well there'll be no sex in my
commune and you know even if it's a married couple I will be enforcing a
sex role you'll be lying in between yeah yeah yeah yeah wholesome wholesome I think I
may have found out the most famous person to be living off-grid I might be
wrong because I'm sure there are loads of candidates currently living off-grid
currently living off-grid I believe okay most people we need the poop okay is
it someone we could guess somebody lives in America a very famous Taylor Swift not
far off actually quite far off screen a carpenter more male more male and
Sabrina Carpenter good luck very narrow sub-separate now Joe Rogan okay writer
writing and he's a writer or that's more correct even closer with Stephen King
somebody who writes famously about rural America Michael John Grisham oh now
we get now we're getting closer now we're getting closer in America he writes a
battle small-time drifter drifting into your town solving some problems
Lee Child's British Lee Child lives in Wyoming Lee Child sorry really dead ball
that on hit that one into the net I just think of because he's British but he
lives in America he does he has experience of life in America now and he lives in
this mad huge estate in Wyoming okay get this Lou I don't know if you be up
for this marrying him so I get my land yeah I just his post box is 10 miles from his
house no thank you 10 miles to the post box often does he said letters all the time
he's exclusively like Jane Austen Lee Child I guess he's not on email his nearest
grocery shop yeah yeah 45 miles away no if he needs to go and get some milk it's
a 90-mile-round trip does he is he making his own milk what are we saying I don't
think that's not he that stays you've got yes you got farm he was just well you
know what Jack Reacher's like Lee Child will just pick up a cow drink straight
from the district no I don't know if he's got a farm but basically he's in this
place in Wyoming Wyoming is the size of the UK but the population is the
combined populations of Cambridge, Canterbury, Carlyle and Chelmsford as he's
put it it's just very very sparsely populated and he has a friend who he
sometimes visits for dinner who lives 105 miles away that's I mean I'm not
interested in that life it's so remote yeah so it's so far from
that's 10 miles to your post box yeah for someone as well who kind of puts out a
book a year and is in the press and is doing interviews and presumably doing
lunch yeah but he's not being distracted by constant letters is he so he's not
doing the writers how you write a book a year a lot of people want to move to these
places in case there's like a nuclear war or something or a zombie outbreak
or does that appeal to you Lou are you sort of trying to get a gauge if how much
for not I am and I'm right away and we'll be we'll be bottling all this
well the reason I ask is like a lot of squillainers will buy these sort of
off grid places and we'll have them in case the whole world goes to shit
yeah if I had the money I probably would yeah so this guy Peter Thiel oh yeah
him squillainer asshole he got New Zealand citizenship so that he could build a
super bunker in New Zealand they're all building in New Zealand because they know
that they're causing it like climate damage to anyway they are but there's a new
book by a guy called Mark Linus who looked at all the countries in the world and
who would survive best a nuclear winter situation and New Zealand is one of
the worst places you can be really because they're very unselfsufficient in
food oh wow they import a lot of food so only 68% of Kiwis would survive a
nuclear winter and on the whole world is that the bird the Kiwi or is it the
fruit the best places any of the best places someone once told me that it's
in the UK if you go like no in the UK 99% of people will die well because we're
not self-sufficient with food but I want to focus on that 1% James that's
that's who I absolutely think I want to see in the world yeah yeah I got 50
cans of beans under my dad yeah you will be the 1% I reckon living in your
self-sufficient um well okay I'm a highly allergic to beans that's the only
problem yeah so some of the self-sufficient in terms of food yeah it's really
interesting is it somewhere in and energy and various different things oh it's
like Sweden or Norway or something like that I'll give you Iceland thank you
oh because they've got all the GM far yeah they've got all those kind of great
aisles of options and Australia Iceland Argentina Paraguay Uruguay and Costa
Rica and Haiti places where they're kind of self-sufficient in themselves that
they can feed their whole population yeah right right because of because of
Australia you said is sort of they I think they've got so much solar power
they've just been giving everyone three hours of free and they got very low
population as well yeah Australia is a good place to go yeah and also they have
lots of different sort of climates there so you could grow lots of stuff in the
north that you can't grow in the south and stuff you can't grow in the north so
if you need all the different bits of it if everyone was wiped out in England
I'd just sort of go along as well I'm not I'm not that interested in living
underground for five years on some teams but you live near the Ramsgate tunnels
which are perfectly yeah perfectly set they're already set up they've got the
bunk beds left over from the war in there oh for no one I'll fit in nicely I'll be
running my coat no okay it's time for our final fact of the show and that is my
fact my fact this week is that at Morrissey gigs security have been known to
pat down fans to search them for meat wow the idea of a big security is kind of
going off you just see the shape of a pork chop in someone's pocket or a sausage or
a sausage yeah I do the same at my gigs actually do yeah yeah but I'm sort of
wanting to find the meat is are you doing the patdowns yourself yeah I am yeah I'm
gonna do the patdowns yeah I'm gonna meet and greet with loose enders as a very
different meaning I pay you I pay you to meet and greet you
so this is Morrissey singer from the band The Smiths who's had a very long solo
career after they break up and he is a committed vegetarian and vegan and he
hates meat to the point that if it is even in the air if he can even smell it at a
gig he will be known to walk off stage so he always says that if he's gonna
play a venue you're not allowed to sell meat in the venue for that specific gig
so if he was playing let's say the O2 in London that would be one of the
conditions that he would have and in 2011 fans were reporting that as they
were coming through the security barriers men and women were patting them down
searching for meat I think it's fair enough yeah it's his gig like I think the
searching is a bit I think the searching is because once or twice he said
sausages thrown at him once yeah which I don't think is on I do think that's
poor form yeah do you need to search everyone for meat just the people who
look suspicious they look like they might be packing a suspicious sausage but
you can anyone in tide I come straight through but you can meet his I would say
quite easy to smuggle yeah because you're made of meat so there's no way they
could do like a X-ray thing because your whole body's meat it's only if there's
it's there's an extra bone you would spot that if someone's smuggling in a
tea ball steak a tea ball steak yeah I agree I think it's a bit much it's a
bit much he's he said he's he doesn't identify with the term vegan but he's
managed to find an even smaller subset of what does he identify with that he
says he just says are refused to eat anything that had a mother he says he's
never had a curry or coffee or garlic coffee got a mother but he said his
diet consists of bread potato pasta and nuts so it feels it feels more like a
sort of channel for documentry about a façade this is this is interesting
though his influence despite him being this character that people find quite
difficult people get annoyed with vegans and my theory is that because they know
that they shouldn't really be eat something in them feels a bit icky about eating
animals they feel embarrassed about themselves that's possible yeah and
Coachella the big festival really tried hard to get a Smith reunion and
there's been so much fallout between the members Johnny Mar and and Morrissey
don't particularly they do not get on they do not get on and so Coachella said we
want you to get back we're gonna pay you a lot of money and we will make Coachella
a vegetarian oh wow experience and he said I would rather eat my own testicles
why which is not very vegan but he uh because this is how much the band do not
like each other I'm afraid this will be us in 30 years I think last maybe last
year they almost got together and Morrissey wanted them to get together because
they got offered an insane amount of money but Johnny Mar said no oh wow
he could have given it to the animal charity and Morrissey has canceled a
gig in Iceland over there meet policy market yeah they do a lot of
form rings though they you know no geothermally powered country Iceland but
the venue just refused to stop selling meat for one day and he said I love
Iceland and have waited a long time to return but I should leave the Harpack
concert hall to their cannibalistic flesh eating bloodlust yeah he's not
afraid to put together a pitty quote for a press release I'll say that yeah I
think it's crazy though the venue couldn't stop selling meat for a day because it's
so bad for the planet as well you think you know just don't sell meat for a day
people will cope I think the thing is with Iceland though they have like a
history meeting lots of meat because they've not been able to grow plants for
many hundreds of years especially in the winter so they really do have a very big
culture of eating white whales males yeah puffins fish I think you're right
I think the vegan thing is really interesting because I think he's he's been
very provocative in the way he presents it like his tour gates would you know
what's provocative slaughterhouses slaughterhouses are provocative absolutely
absolutely and I think probably he sort of deliberately does it in a
way maybe because he's trying to shock people and no one's listening well I
think it works on only a small percentage of it I think people are likely to
shut it out if something is so upsetting I think yeah like the vegan is a
movement that's had a bit of a stumble in recent years it's a bit less popular
than it was about five years ago yeah and just a lot of people have sort of
thought of what is quite difficult now I can't quite be bothered to cut out
everything and you know like vegetarians sometimes get stick for not being
vegans and like that kind of thing so it's I think it's tricky how you sort of
softly softly people into it yeah do you guys remember that Morrissey wrote a
novel and it became quite well-known for the fact that it contained possibly the
worst sex scene of the year oh included in the book did it when there's no
word for the worst sex it did it won the 2015 worst sex scene so his book was
called List of the Lost could you be in a sexy voice yeah what do you want to do
you want to okay here we go Eliza and Ezra rolled together in the one giggling
snowball a full-figured copulation screaming and shouting as they playfully
bit and pull each other in a dangerous and cool I think it's good so far yeah sorry
how's everyone else doing in a glamorous roller coaster coil of sexually
violent rotation with Eliza's breasts barrel rolled across as was howling
mouth and painted and the pained frenzy of his bulbous solute salt solute was
that's how it tastes sorry extenuating his excitement as it whacked and
smacked its way into every muscle of Eliza's body except for the otherwise
central zone this is a Tuesday night at my house this is just this is just
Tuesday's that's mad I think I do think sexy novels are a bit less sexy what
you have to ask people can you tell me what this is but that is insane he's never
had sex I'm sorry I think it's so good yeah yeah there is so many big metaphors in
there yeah they're like a snowball and they're like a roller coaster
it's a timeless roller coaster coil yeah and it's quite aggressive not at
not at all sexually violent rotation is a bit I mean if you're breasts are doing
barrel rolls that's the least imagine like that's RAF stuff isn't that's like
that's the red arrows you know and your bulbous salutation is a bit that's
mad bulbous salutations feels like they might support this one on Morris
he's books yeah yeah he has been a bit controversial because he wrote an
autobiography a memoir and it was published by Penguin Classics yeah so same
list as Ovid home was Odyssey and he's basically said I'll do I'll do a book
but only if it goes in straight as a Penguin Classic oh wow yeah a Penguin
class sorry I didn't really take notice yeah so yeah so it didn't come out in
hardback which would be your traditional release it was straight into a paper
bag with the classic yeah yeah wow Plato is is they're on the same
list my book is bold and I think it got him a lot of publicity yeah
negative yeah yeah yeah yeah but he's got a long history writing so when he
before he was a pop star he wrote unsolicited script for Coronation Street did
they go with it or not he sent it to them he sent them a script where the
Rovers return installs a jukebox and they did not it's basically fanfiction isn't it
it's basically fanfiction yeah yeah yeah I found one other example just while
we're still on Marcy slash musicians of people who are very strict vegan
slash vegetarians to the point where it almost seems a bit awkward
Katie Lang oh yeah Katie Lang once refused to meet the singer Meetloaf
because of his name wow yeah it was an interview from Meetloaf where he said I was
a vegetarian for 10 years and I was sitting next to John Bon Jovi and awards
thing and I said oh man I'd love to meet Katie Lang I'd really love to meet her
they went to find out if that's okay she said no his name is Meetloaf but he
was a vegetarian at the time possibly he'd lapsed at that point okay he had been
a vegetarian at some point for 10 years yeah I think I think it's a bit
strict of Katie though yeah I had just while we're on sort of pop stars and
stuff before we go on to veganism I had a look at some other riders that people
have so Kanye West apparently when he played later with Jules Holland that he
must have his dressing room carpet ironed wow M&M apparently when he played
at a festival in Northern Ireland insisted on a coy carp pond okay and according
to TMZ there's a rapper called DMX who I'm not massively familiar with oh yeah
he's a biggie though yeah he is big and for every rider he wants a bottle of
Hennessy and three boxes of condoms three boxes which boxes were the boxes well
sometimes the box is a fewer like so even if there was three in a box had the
year-end you can get through nine before of gig not before not when I'm at when
I'm at the Bill Murray it's a similar story it seats 90 I'm optimistic no that's
man I was wondering if he might be using them to carry water because they're quite
good for that I heard the Drake puts when he finishes off in a condom because he
doesn't want you know kids with some like you know stranger that he's yeah
even when he puts like chili flakes in the reminence or something so they
can't shove it up them oh that's what I heard so people might take the condom and
shove and chili flakes is going to stop them I mean if you're mentally
enough to want to do the first part about do you think the chili flakes would stop
I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry
yeah absolutely I wouldn't be a hundred percent certain any of the things I said a tree will you give toward Lou you recently toward I did the only I asked for was not a plastic bottle of water so either like a jug a filter jug or yeah or like cans I guess a
water yeah because they're called the plastic bottles yeah very not I guess I'm a good person I guess I'm just what I'm saying here so today is like I'm a guy you're more a
CEO of comedy yeah yeah better chocolate does does Eminem ask on his right to have all the Van Halens removed from his dressing room I love it very good
to only the proud ones yeah okay that's it that is all of our facts thank you so much for listening if you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said over the course of this
podcast we're all online you can get us on Instagram that's where I am on at Shribaland James my Instagram is no such thing as James Harkin Andy mine is at Andrew Hunter
yeah and Lou you just search Lisa aren't as it will come up and I've just done a substack note and it's got to like so join join in oh that's the first
substack yeah be that third like yeah well Colts they start small but well it's worse because I've got over 4,000
subscribers but they're not they're not what I'm doing I suppose or if you want to get to us as a
group you can message us on podcast at qi.com send us an email there with anything you want to chat about any extra facts that you
have we often go through the inbox and Andy will cherry pick out the best of those to bring to our mail bag episodes that we do called
drop us a line which can be found in a very secret place Lou it's called club fish it's a secret exclusive members
club yeah it's a cult no sex there's not a flicker a sex gun on there not be joining no bulbous salutations are afraid
and yeah we will read out the best of those emails on there so check out club fish you can check that out by
going to know such thing as a fish dot com we've also got other stuff up there like merchandise that you can
buy we've all of our previous episodes but if not just come back again next week because we will be here
with another episode we will see you then. Good bye.
[BLANK_AUDIO]